Sometimes, we make decisions
without thinking too
much about them,
such as deciding how
to drive to work.
Other times, we sit and imagine
many possible scenarios based
on our understanding
of the world.
We can use these
imagined outcomes to
decide what to do
or what not to do.
For example, if we carry
a fragile object with one hand,
we can imagine scenarios
where it falls and
breaks and we can make
choices accordingly.
We've seen sample-based
methods like
TD which learn only from
sampled experience.
We've also seen methods
like dynamic programming or
DP which plan by using
complete information
about how things work,
without having to make decisions.
It would be even better
if we could obtain
an intermediate method that can
leverage the best
of both extremes.
This week, we will
do just that and
unify these strategies with
the Dyner architecture.
In this video, we will
talk about models.
By the end of the video,
you will be able to describe
a model and how it can be used,
classify models as distribution
models or sample models,
and identify when to use
a distribution model
or sample model.
Models are used to store
knowledge about the dynamics.
When imagining different
scenarios to a decision-making,
this is rooted in our knowledge
about how the world works.
From a particular
state in action,
the model should produce
a possible next state and reward.
This allows us to
see an outcome of
an action without having
to actually take it.
A model allows for planning.
Planning refers to the process of
using a model to
improve a policy.
One way to plan with a model
is to use simulated experience
and perform value
function updates
as if those experiences happened.
By improving the value estimates,
we can make more
informed decisions.
Simulating experience improves
the sample efficiency.
The addition of
simulated experience
means the agent needs
fewer interactions with the world
to come up with the same policy.
Now, let's talk about
the different types of
models that may be useful to us.
One is a sample model,
which produces an actual outcome
drawn from some
underlying probabilities.
For example, a sample
model for flipping
a coin can generate a random
sequence of heads and tails.
Another type of model is
a distribution model
which completely
specifies the likelihood or
probability of every outcome.
In the coin flipping example,
it would say that heads
could occur 50 percent of
the time and that tails could
occur 50 percent of the time.
It could also produce
the odds of any sequence
of heads and tails
using this information.
Sample models can be
computationally inexpensive because
random outcomes can be produced
according to a set of rules.
For example, to flip five coins,
a sample model can
randomly pick zero or
one independently five times.
It only needs to produce
a single outcome for each flip.
As an example of a sample
model in practice, in 2017,
the company CloudFlare use
random patterns sampled from
a wall of lava lamps to encrypt
10 percent of
global Internet traffic.
The samples are
random configurations of
the lava lamp wall
at a given point in
time with the procedure
of rules to generate
those samples defined by
the dynamics of the lava lamps.
Distribution models
contain more information,
but can be difficult to specify
and can become very large.
Let's go back to the example
for flipping five coins.
A distribution model
would enumerate
every possible sequence
of heads and tails you
could get across
the five coins and
assign a probability
to each sequence.
For this simple problem,
that would consist of fully
describing 32 possible outcomes.
Distribution models can be
used as sample models by drying
outcomes according to
explicit probabilities
of each outcome.
But they contain
more information that might be
strictly needed just
to obtain samples.
In this video, we talked
about how models can be
used to improve a policy
through a process
called planning.
We discussed two different
types of models,
sample models and
distribution models.
Next time, we'll go into
more depth on the differences
between these models.